# For What:-

- For developing web app and api.

# Why :-

- Strong command line support
- large community
- Regular updates
- Fast simple

# Composer

- A dependency manager for PHP
- check cmd "composer"

# Update composer.json

- composer update

# Create new project

1. install laravel only once, of a device
   - composer global require laravel/installer
   - laravel new [project_name]
2. composer create-project --prefer-dist laravel/laravel [project_name]

# Php artisan

- php artisan :- to view the list of commands
- php artisan make:controller CategoryProductController -r -m Category

# Run project

- php artisan serve

# create new controller

- php artisan make:controller User

# create new component

- php artisan make:component Header

# create new middleware

- php artisan make:middleware [ageCheck]

# create new model

- php artisan make:model User
- create migration & model :- php artisan make:model User -m

# create mail

- php artisan make:mail [UserCreated]
- with markdown

# Make Transformer (optional)

- hides original db structure of the database
- php artisan make:transformer UserTransformer

# Flash Session

- Delete after refresh. Used in sending mail and get confrimation.

# Localization

- Localization feature of Laravel supports different language to be used in application. You need to store all the strings of different language in a file and these files are stored at resources/views directory.

# Migration

- Migrations are like version control for your database, allowing your team to define and share the application's database schema definition.

- Create schema :- php artisan make:migration create_table_name_table
- Migrate :- php artisan migrate
- Undo :- php artisan migrate:rollback
- Undo selected migrate :- php artisan migrate:rollback --step 3
- Reset :- php artisan migrate:reset
- Refresh :- php artisan migrate:refresh
- Migrate a file: - php artisan migrate --path=/database/migrate/filename

# Factories

- create :- php artisan make:factory PostFactory
- Migrate :- php artisan migrate

# Seeding / Faker

- Adding some dummy data to database throught laravel command line.
- create :- php artisan make:seeder MembersSeeder
- seed :- php artisan db:seed --class=MembersSeeder

# Passport

- php artisan passport:install

# Accessor

- used in data before displaying the data.

# Mutator

- update data before saving in database.

# Stub

- The Artisan console's make commands are used to create a variety of classes, such as controllers, jobs, migrations, and tests. These classes are generated using "stub" files that are populated with values based on your input. However, you may want to to make small changes to files generated by Artisan. To accomplish this, you may use the stub:publish command to publish the most common stubs to your application so that you can customize them:
- php artisan stub:publish

# Fluent Strings

- To provide more flexibility and readablity to the regular string operations in Laravel by chaining array of string manipulation methods.

# Markdown Mail Template

- https://laravel.com/docs/7.x/mail#markdown-mailables

- php artisan make:mail SampleMail --markdown=emails.SampleMail

# Make custom command

- Make Command:- php artisan make:command showDB
- Run Command:- php artisan showDB

# Resources

- Create some function in controller automatically
- eg :- eg for curd operation, only one route can access all operations.
- php artisan make:controller [controller_name] --resource
- create model and controller at once :- php artisan make:model [model_name] --resource

# API Authentication with Sanctum

- install sanctum :- composer require laravel/sanctum
- Publish the Sanctum configuration and migration files .
- php artisan vendor:publish - --provider="Laravel\Sanctum\SanctumServiceProvider"
- Run your database migrations :- php artisan migrate
- Add the Sanctum's middleware.
- To use tokens for users.
- create the seeder for the User model :- php artisan make:seeder UsersTableSeeder
- seed users table with user :- php artisan db:seed --class=UsersTableSeeder
- create a controller and login route

# laravel sanctum,jwt,passport

1. Passport : Passport provides a full OAuth2 server implementation for your
   Laravel application in a matter of minutes. It is therefore necessary to have
   a brief knowledge of OAuth2.

2. Sanctum : Sanctum it is a simple package to issue API tokens to your users
   without the complication of OAuth. Sanctum uses Laravel's built-in cookie
   based session authentication services.

In a small application use Sanctum. it's simple and easy

3. JWT : Auth (Authentication) is the process of identifying the user
   credentials. In web applications, authentication is managed by sessions which
   take the input parameters such as email or username and password, for user
   identification. If these parameters match, the user is said to be authenticated.

# Laravel 8 changes

- https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/releases

1. Laravel Jetstream
2. Models Directory
3. Model Factory Classes
4. Migration Squashing
5. Job Batching
6. Improved Rate Limiting
7. Improved Maintenance Mode
8. Closure Dispatch / Chain
9. Dynamic Blade Components
10. Event Listener Improvements
11. Time Testing Helpers
12. Tailwind Pagination Views
13. Routing Namespace Updates

# Maintenance Mode

- update some code in the project, we cannot directly push the code. Thats why we put the website in down mode. and push the update and up the server again.
- Down the serve :- php artisan down
- Up the serve :- php artisan up
- But, we cannot see the website, so for the problem. The solution is Maintenance Mode using secret code.
- Generate Secret code:- php artisan down --secret="123"
- Now access the server in :- [website_url]/[secret_key]

# Laravel Jetstream

- Package of laravel, provides basic of a project, like login,registration, api, logout, basic layout system.

1. uninstall and reinstall composer
   - composer global remove laravel/installer
   - composer global require laravel/installer
2. laravel new [project_name] --jet
3. npm install && npm run dev
4. php artisan serve
   - create a new database in phpmyadmin as the name same to the [project_name]
5. php artisan migrate

# link storage to public

- php artisan storage:link

# laravel schedule

- https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/scheduling
